title: whether the "dual xt" approach is allowed
description:

 What the "dual xt" approach is: some words have different execution
 tokens (xt's) for compilation and interpretation actions ("semantics").
 One of possible implementations is to place compiling words into
 a separate word list and change the search order when the state changes
 so that compiling words are visible during compilation and invisible
 dutng interpretation.

 FIND is allowed by the standard to return different xt's in compilation
 and interpretation states, while SEARCH-WORDLIST is not.

 From this we conclude that systems that use the dual-xt approach
 cannot implement the SEARCH word set.

 In other words, the approach where compilation and interpretation
 actions are two branches of one routine is "more compliant" than
 the approach where compilation and interpretation action are
 two routines.

details:

 SEARCH-WORDLIST does not depend on STATE. So it must return the same xt
 for  S" TO" FORTH-WORDLIST  in both states.

 So compiling words (including S" and TO ) have only one xt in a system
 that supports the SEARCH word set.

 The words like IF may be invisible in compilation state, but such systems
 cannot implement the SEARCH word set in the ANS-compliant way.
 No surprize: such systems use word lists for system purposes and
 if the programmer also uses this mechanism, what he does may
 interfere with what the system does (like return stack
 manipulations may interfere with what the inner interpreter does).

cited-message:

>Subject: Re: (postpone babble: using postpone in interpret-mode to compile      compile-only words)
>Date: Mon, 08 Apr 2002 17:08:14 +0400
>From: "Michael L.Gassanenko" <m_l_g3@yahoo.com>
>Newsgroups: comp.lang.forth

Guido Draheim wrote:
>
> Es schrieb "Elizabeth D. Rather":
> >
[...]
>
> WAIT A SECOND! so if tick, and FIND, and SEARCH-WORDLIST all return just
> the interpretation semantics, and let them throw on compile-only words,
> one can not use them to build ones own outer interpreter out of that.
> That breaks with all traditions - do many systems adopt this? If gforth
> does things differently, that's not uncommon, and here I see you do
> endorse it, as a personal opinion, or just as a valid interpretation of
> ans forth?

SEARCH-WORDLIST has to classify each "compile-only" (so zu sagen) word
as either immediate or non-immediate.

If it's there, it must find it; then, it returns -1 or 1 depending
on whether it's immediate or not.

(Well, I [myself] think it was meant 1 means that the word must be processed
(by the interpreter) as immediate and -1 means that it must be processed
as non-immediate.)

SEARCH-WORDLIST does not depend on STATE. So it must return the same xt
for  S" TO" FORTH-WORDLIST  in both states.

So S" and TO have only one xt in a system that supports the SEARCH word set.

The words like IF may be invisible in compilation state, but such systems
cannot implement the SEARCH word set in the ANS-compliant way.
No surprize: such systems use word lists for system purposes and
if the programmer also uses this mechanism, this may
interfere with what the system does (like return stack
manipulations may interfere with what the inner interpreter does).

-- the sig (long) --

The ANS Forth standard is like a compass: it shows directions
to the North and South Poles, but most people have nothing
to do at the poles.

When you realize that you don't need neither portability across
the whole range of ANS-compliant systems, nor to go to the pole,
you also realize that what you will do and where you will go
looking at the compass or into the standard is your responsibility.

In addition, when you try to reach absolute portability,
ANS Forth works no much better than the compass near the pole.

-- end of sig --

