
Welcome to the comp.lang.forth.repository.

The purpose of this site is to document
existing Forth usage that for some reasons
cannot become a part of the ANSI/ISO Forth
Standard. The contents of this site need
not pass the standardization procedure
with its advantages and disadvantages.
OTOH, there is a requirement that the
proposals may be published here only after
they are discussed in the comp.lang.forth
newsgroup.

This project does not release code.
Instead, it releases specifications
of Forth words.

In theory, this project can become a complement
or an alternative to the ANS Forth standard,
whatever the community needs, but only after
investment of an amount of labour comparable to
that spent on the ANSI standard. Anyway, if you
feel that the ANS/ISO Forth standard should be
improved, here's a way how and a place where
to reach this goal. (mlg)

This site is provided as a webspace to be
used on usenet' comp.lang.forth. It is
based on the obvervation, that every once
in a while someone creates a webpage with
proposals, informations, examples,
forthtexts or just hypertext links - and
unlike other languages, forth has the
tendency to be implemented again and again.

A lot of these private webpages and systems
are scattered around the web, and it is
often not easy to find them unless
they are mentioned again on comp.lang.forth.
That does not make life easy for a developer
who wishes to get an overview of what there
is about contemporary forth, and even more
some interesting ideas that may soon be
forgotten if not referenced from a central place.

So, the site is dedicated towards improving portability
between forth implementations, providing surveys,
example implementations, and library modules.
The ISO standardiziation path is a bit slow and there
are often some reasons to not include a specific
common usage as it is either not really needed
or it is problematic in specialized systems. Still it
is worth to be known to the forth people.

The advantage of sourceforge is that
everyone can get a developer account
here. Just make yourself heard on the usenet' group
if you want to get write access here, atleast
some of the current admins will listen and
quite probably you can add pages shortly thereafter.

And remember, it is harder to find someone
who actually *wants* to have write access
than there would be a need to be wary about
who is applying for the job. Just give it
a try and post to comp.lang.forth today. (GuidoD)


