title: Character literals
description:
The ANSI/ISO Forth standard recommends the following syntax for
character literals:
[CHAR] c
within colon definitions and
CHAR c
outside colon definitions.

Many Forth systems support the following syntax as well:
'c'

Supported-in:
Win32Forth, T32Forth

HEX  ok
'a' . 61  ok
'a' EMIT a ok

Not-supported-in:
MPE VFX Forth 3.40 14 May 2001,
SwiftForth 2.2.2 09Mar2001,
SP-Forth 4.006

Differently-supported-in:
bigForth and gForth
HEX  ok
'a' . 6127  ok
'A' . 4127  ok
where 61 is the code of 'a' and 27 is the code of tick.
To obtain the code of 'a', you have to write: 'a

'a . 61  ok
'a EMIT a ok

The logic behind this strange syntax is that ' (tick)
is actually a number conversioon prefix. (Do not ask
me why or how, I am not a proponent of this syntax -- mlg)

summary:
Which syntax is better, 'c' or 'c , is the subject of an argument.

If you write for portability, you cannot rely on this syntax.
OTOH, understanding what was meant in such code is usually
no problem for a human.

note:
You see that with the gForth syntax, 'abcd leaves 'a' in the most
significant byte and 'd' in the least significant byte. Let us
define VARIABLE X . What do you think, which character will be in
the byte at address X after execution of 'abcd X ! ?
The answer is that this depends on the platform.

one-more-approach:
ASCII c

ASCII is a state-smart word that leaves the character code
on the data stack when invoked in the interpretation state
and compiles that code as a literal when invoked in the
compilation state.

 Origin : Forth-83. Widely adopted since.

one-more-approach:

: CH> ( "c" -- c )  SOURCE >IN @ TUCK > >R + C@ R> 0= OR 1 >IN +! ;

 ( "c" -- c )

  Obtain the next character from the input stream.
  Advance >IN by one character.
  Return -1 (the value with all bits set) in the case of end-of-line.

The word CH> is useful inside user definitions and in the interpretation
state. (It does not compile a char as a literal in compilation state.)
