title: RESTORE-INPUT (extended)
description:
RESTORE-INPUT is a standard word: see http://forth.sourceforge.net/standard/dpans/dpans6.htm#6.2.2148

The standard says that "an ambiguous condition exists
if the input source represented by the arguments is
not the same as the current input source".
This means that, for example, the use of RESTORE-INPUT to
stop interpretation of the text in a string and continue
interpretation of a file is not portable.

It is meaningful to extend the semantics of RESTORE-INPUT and
read this definition as follows:

RESTORE-INPUT

( xn ... x1 n -- flag )

Attempt to restore the input source specification to the state described
by x1 through xn. flag is true if the input source specification cannot
be so restored.

An ambiguous condition exists if the arguments specify an input source
whose state has been irreversibly changed by the system, for example,
a closed file or the user input device after accepting a new line.

An ambiguous condition exists if the program returns control to the system
with the input source different from the one that was current when
the system invoked the program, unless both input sources are strings
in memory.

In other words, a program that switches the input source shall not
return control to the system until the input source is switched back,
unless both input sources are strings.
(Note the difference between the input source and the input source
specification: the first specifies the device, the second specifies
the device and its state. Changing the state of the current input source
is not ambiguous.)

From the practical point of view, this means that if you write
system-dependent code that switches the input sources, e.g.
the word EVALUATE-WITH (q.v.), you may use SAVE-INPUT ... RESTORE-INPUT
to nest input sources.

As to the restriction, it means that the program must not trick
the system directing the text interpretation routines to input
sources of which they (the routines) are not aware.

Note the definition in 2.1:

input source specification:
  A set of information describing a particular state of the input source,
  input buffer, and parse area. This information is sufficient, when saved
  and restored properly, to enable the nesting of parsing operations
  on the same or different input sources.


status:
  In practice, SAVE-INPUT ... RESTORE-INPUT is often used
  to implement input source nesting.


